NomCom chair script:

Note:  Some more information including a bunch of templates can be found here
* [2018-ChairScript](https://trac.ietf.org/trac/nomcom2018/wiki/ChairScript)
1. **BACKGROUND:** Read RFC 7437 (or its successor RFC if and when one is created) and familiarize yourself both with the chair role as well as everything else in the document because the chair is responsible for ensuring that the procedures are adhered to.
	* **2019 Update:** [​](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7437bis/?include_text=1)[https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7437bis/?include\_text=1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-iasa2-rfc7437bis/?include_text=1)
1. **LIAISON REQUEST:** NomCom has liaisons assigned to it by the IAB, IESG, and Internet Society Board of Trustees.  You should contact each of those organizations and request those assignments.  While RFC 7437 does not call other liaisons out, the 2017 NomCom actively solicited liaisons from the IAOC and from the IETF Tools Team.  The latter is helpful because the much of the NomCom process is performed using IETF datatracker tools.
	* **2019 Update:**  (clause 4.3) Liaisons from IESG and IAB are expected.  ISOC Board of Trustees, IETF LLC, and IETF Trust may appoint at their discretion.  The rules don&#39;t stop the Chair from requesting, but only the IESG and IAB have to provide liaisons.  Advisors can be requested for certain expertise (like Tools for example)
1. **ROLE ASSIGNMENT** : Get yourself assigned to the datatracker NomCom chair role and have the datatracker setup performed.  This is done by asking Alexa Morris ([amorris@amsl.org](mailto:amorris@amsl.org), the Executive Director for the IETF) and Robert Sparks (on the Tools Team).  Alexa should be able to do everything without Robert&#39;s intervention, but copy him on the request so that he&#39;s aware that it is taking place.  If the person with these responsibilities has changed, ask the replacements to initiate the setup.  One of the abilities that should be granted with the assignment of the NomCom chair role is the ability to publish to the IETF Announce mailing list.  Please verify with Alexa that you in fact have this access, otherwise your postings to that mailing list will go through a manual moderation step that can insert a day&#39;s wait or more before your posting actually goes out.
1. **KEY GENERATION** : Generate a public/private key pair for use in protecting candidate feedback that is submitted to NomCom.  The instructions for doing this are found by going to [https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/private/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/private/) (where 20XX is the year of the NomCom in question) and selecting &quot;Configuration Help&quot; from the Chair/Advisor Tasks tab.  As of 2017, this page provides a sample OpenSSL configuration file (cut and paste from the webpage and use that to create the actual file on your computer) and the OpenSSL command needed to generate the key pair (currently an RSA 2048-bit public key).  Squirrel away the private key in a secure location because it is not otherwise encrypted or protected from disclosure.  The private key is distributed to the members of your NomCom once they have been selected (so probably during the July IETF meeting).  The Configuration Help page directs you to the &quot;NomCom Configuration&quot; page (also found by selecting &quot;Edit Settings&quot; from the Chair/Advisor Tasks tab).  Here you will select the public key file (this is really an X.509 certificate file but don&#39;t worry about that) that OpenSSL created and upload it.  After you have browsed to the key and selected it, go to the bottom of the page and hit the Save button.
	* **2019 Update** : Important site [https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/private/help/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/private/help/)
1. **PGP KEY GENERATION** : This is an optional step, but if you do not already use PGP, you may wish to install a package on your computer and securely generate a key pair.  Keep the private key secured and save the public key to share with NomCom members later on in the process, if this means of communications is desired.  To be clear, this step is not required and the NomCom has not (at least through 2017) required that its emails be encrypted to be considered confidential within the requirements of RFC 7437.
1. **SET UP A DOODLE ACCOUNT** : This is an optional step, but Doodle is a good tool for determining what dates and times work best for many of the activities of the NomCom.  If you don&#39;t have a Doodle account, set one up (they are free), so that you can create and manage polls.  Polls can also be managed via email, but this is much more work-intensive on the Chair than using a Doodle poll.
1. **SET UP A GITHUB ACCOUNT** : This is an optional step, but you may wish to set up a (password and access protected) GitHub account for storing documents such as meeting notes, questionnaires, confidentiality guidance, vote computing scripts, and the like.  (Examples of such documents may be available from the past Chair who now serves as your adviser.) Any use of a GitHub account should only be done with a private GitHub repository, with access reserved to the members of the NomCom.  This requires that the NomCom members have their own GitHub accounts if they wish to access the repository, although such a requirement is frequently easily met because some WGs use GitHub for Internet-Draft development.
	* **2019 Update** :  In 2018 we used trac.  So use whatever you want for team communication.
1. **GET ACCESS TO THE NOMCOM WEBEX** : Upon request, the Secretariat can supply you with access to the IETF&#39;s WebEx service.  You will be given a NomCom chair account and password.
1. **CONSIDER A VOTING MECHANISM** : The Chair is responsible for selecting a voting mechanism (RFC 7437, Section 5.5).  One such mechanism is the [Condorcet method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method).  The NomCom will be voting to select the candidates for each open position and the Condorcet method is a complex-sounding, but relatively-simple-to-implement scheme for determining which nominees are the highest ranked.  The Condorcet method ranks each nominee against every other nominee and produces an overall ranking of how they stack up against each other.  While a Condorcet vote doesn&#39;t have to be taken to make a final decision, it&#39;s helpful to illustrate the relative positions of nominees for each position and to help eliminate the lowest ranked ones in order to simplify the final decision making process.
1. **EMAIL ALIASES** : As of 2017, the email aliases for your NomCom may require a manual setup process and it&#39;s unknown if AMSL has incorporated this into the steps of their NomCom process.  So, make sure that you get [nomcom-chair-XXXX@ietf.org](mailto:nomcom-chair-XXXX@ietf.org) and [nomcom-XXXX@ietf.org](mailto:nomcom-XXXX@ietf.org) set up.  This can be done by reaching out to [glen@amsl.org](mailto:glen@amsl.org) (AMS IT Director, who is backed by Matt Larson ([mlarson@amsl.com](mailto:mlarson@amsl.com)), the IETF System Administrator) with a cc sent to Alexa.  The old nomcom-chair and nomcom aliases (without the year at the end of them) should have been disabled so that you don&#39;t collect the enormous amounts of spam sent to them.  You&#39;ll probably want an internal address such as [nomcom17-coord@ietf.org](mailto:nomcom17-coord@ietf.org) for internal discussions in the group, but that doesn&#39;t need to be set up immediately since it will be populated with the NomCom members, liaisons, advisor, and chair.
1. **DETERMINE OPEN POSITIONS:** In preparation for the call for volunteers, you will need to determine which positions are open because this information appears in the call.  You&#39;ll also need it to populate the NomCom pages, but that&#39;s a later step.
1. **POSITION DESCRIPTIONS** : even prior to the NomCom members being selected, you should reach out to each of the organizations for which your NomCom will be selecting candidates and ask for updated position descriptions, if needed.  The existing position descriptions (last year&#39;s) may suffice or they may require update.  They are found at: [https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/expertise/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/expertise/).  Reaching out to the organizations (via their liaisons, chairs, or other designated contact) is helpful because it make take them awhile before their next meeting in which they are able to discuss the position descriptions.
1. **GET THE LIST OF MEETING ATTENDEES WHO HAVE ALREADY VOLUNTEERED TO SERVE ON THE NOMCOM:** As part of the meeting registration process, attendees can tick a box indicating a willingness to serve on the NomCom.  Ticking the box does not verify their eligibility however.  As the chair, you have access to: [https://www.ietf.org/registration/nomcom\_chair/nomcomstaff.py](https://www.ietf.org/registration/nomcom_chair/nomcomstaff.py), which can be used to verify eligibility, although RFC 7437 indicates that the IETF Secretariat should be doing this for volunteers as well, so you may not have to do it for the ones who tick the box, only the ones who email the chair and volunteer directly.
	* **2019 Update:  This was an issue in 2018.  Have a discussion with Alexa and the tools team on how to best do this task.**
1. **SET UP THE HOME PAGE:** At a minimum, before sending out the call for volunteers, you should set up the home page for your NomCom.  This is done by going to [https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/private/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX/private/) and selecting &quot;Edit Pages&quot; on the &quot;Chair/Advisor Tasks&quot; tab.  The wiki templates all use RST and there&#39;s a cheat sheet here:  [Quick reStructuredText](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html).  Rather than doing your edits in public, you may wish you to use the datatracker sandbox feature which allows you to try things out in a non-public manner.  The sandbox is found at [http://sandbox.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX](http://sandbox.ietf.org/nomcom/20XX).  You login with your normal datatracker email address, but the password is literally password.  Nothing you do in the sandbox will be propagated to the actual public-facing side of the datatracker, so make sure you repeat whatever it is you did in the sandbox on the public-facing side once you are satisfied how things turned out in the sandbox.  An initial home page for the NomCom will probably consist of contact information and a preliminary schedule.  See Appendix C in RFC 7437 for information on mandatory timeline details.
1. **FIRST CALL FOR VOLUNTEERS:** In mid-May, you will need to send out the first call for volunteers to serve on the NomCom.  A sample first call for volunteers from the 2016 NomCom is found here: [https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg15463.html](https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg15463.html).  Update your call for volunteers as appropriate.  The minimum time that the call can be open is 30 days, but you can run for a longer period if desired.  Make sure the call closes in time for you to run the selection process (see RFC 3797).  Calls for volunteers are sent to the IETF Announce mailing list using the tool found here: [https://datatracker.ietf.org/secr/announcement/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/secr/announcement/).  The tool gives the ability to cc other addresses on the announcement.  You should add the [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org) address to the cc box for everything you post (in fact, all postings should be copied to the [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org) mailing list, as given in RFC 7437, Section 3.9).  Make sure you post your announcement sufficiently early that it actually goes out on the desired date.
	* [Announcment Archive](https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/ann/)
1. **RESPOND TO VOLUNTEERS:** Once you start receiving email from volunteers, you will need to respond to those emails indicating whether they are valid volunteers.  The tool at [https://www.ietf.org/registration/nomcom\_chair/nomcomstaff.py](https://www.ietf.org/registration/nomcom_chair/nomcomstaff.py) will help you with that.
1. **INPUT DESIRED EXPERTISE:** Assuming that you&#39;ve received position descriptions from the bodies (IAB, IESG, and IAOC), you should input this information so that it appears on the new NomCom pages.  This is done from the Chair/Advisor tab.  Select &quot;Edit Positions&quot; for the drop down.  From there click the &quot;Add New Position&quot; button.  A box labeled &quot;Name&quot; will pop up.  Fill the box in with the name of the position, e.g., &quot;ART AD&quot;, &quot;Internet AD&quot;, etc.  You will probably want to create some generic positions that are used to house the text related to the generic expertise that is desired for a member of that group.  This is most relevant to the IESG.  For a non-generic position, you should tick the &quot;Is open&quot; box to indicate that this is a position for which nominations will be accepted.  Do not tick &quot;Is accepting nominations&quot; until you&#39;re ready to start accepting nominations.  Click the &quot;Add&quot; button to create the new position.  You&#39;ll be brought back to the initial position adding page.  The newly created positions will show in blocks labeled &quot;Open Positions&quot; and &quot;Closed Positions&quot;.  Click on the link that says &quot;Summary of Desired Expertise [name of position]&quot;.  This will allow you to enter the position descriptions you earlier solicited or to copy the old ones from the previous year&#39;s NomCom pages, if you&#39;ve received nothing newer.  Fill in the text box and then clock &quot;Save template&quot; at the bottom of the page.  This time you are taken back to a list of chair/advisor templates including newly created links for managing each of the positions.  Repeat until all of the open positions have been entered.
1. **SECOND CALL FOR VOLUNTEERS:** About two weeks after sending out the first call for volunteers, a second call for volunteers should be sent out.  Adjust the wording as necessary.  Post it using the same method as was done for the first call for volunteers.
1. **THIRD CALL FOR VOLUNTEERS:** About a week before the call for volunteers closes, post a third call for volunteers.  Adjust the wording of the previous call for any change in circumstances and use the same method as was used for the first call for volunteers.
1. **MERGE VOLUNTEER LISTS:** Merge the validated volunteers solicited via email with the list of validated volunteers you get from the IETF Secretariat.  You can expect that some volunteers will have both ticked the box and separately emailed their willingness to volunteer.  Make sure you don&#39;t end up with double entries for volunteers.  Also pay attention to the RFC 7437 Section 4.15 and exclude anyone from the list of volunteers who is not qualified to be a voting member based on membership in one of the specified organizations.  This generally means anyone who sits on one of the bodies for which the NomCom is selecting members, but it also includes ex officio members such as the IRTF Chair (RFC 7827, Section 2.3).  If you have volunteers who do not have an affiliation listed (you&#39;ll get some like this in the list received from the Secretariat), you should probably drop each one of them a line and inquire as to their affiliations.  Being unaffiliated is not disqualifying, but some people fail to note their affiliations when they do have one.  RFC 7437, Section 4.17 limits the number of voting members from any one affiliation.
1. **VALIDATE THE VOLUNTEERS LISTS:** Owing to some folks forgetting that they have previously volunteered for the NomCom, you should probably send an email to each person on the list and ask them to let you know if they do not want to be on the list.  Specify a deadline by which this notification to you should be made.  This will help you to weed out some volunteers who don&#39;t actually want to be on the list or people who realize that they should not be on the list (for example, ISOC has now set a policy that there staff will no longer volunteer for the NomCom).  Despite taking this step, you can safely assume that there will be those who do not respond who do not actually want to volunteer.  See below regarding drawing extra selections from the random process.  The 2017 NomCom saw 3 volunteers withdraw.  One did so because of working for ISOC (and also being too busy), one no longer worked for a company that sent her to the IETF, and one wanted to run for a position that the NomCom was charged with selecting.
	* **2019 Update: rules have changed, need to check with Andrew if he will allow ISOC people on nomcom now that there is an IETF LLC.**
1. **ARRANGE MEETING SPACE AND REFERESHMENTS:** This step should probably be done earlier rather than later as it requires coordination with the IETF Secretariat – it can even be done while the call for volunteers is under way.  Although not required by RFC 7437, it&#39;s been found helpful by past chairs to get the NomCom (voting members, liaisons, and advisers) together at the Second IETF meeting (generally the July or August meeting) for face-to-face meeting and kick-off activities.  Contact the Secretariat to ensure that a room is available throughout the week for the NomCom to meet in.  This should be a private room with a locking door in order to ensure the confidentiality of discussion, although realistically most rooms come with locking doors and the matters discussed at the Second IETF meeting are generally logistical and not confidential.  In practice, getting everyone together for a breakfast meeting each day has worked well to discuss expectations, requirements, schedule, and all the unexpected topics that new NomCom members will bring up.  The Secretariat can arrange breakfast to be supplied to the room; make sure they know of any dietary restrictions, although they are generally pretty good about supplying a range of options unbidden.  If there are any NomCom members who are unfortunately unable to attend the meeting in person, it&#39;s a good idea to have the Secretariat arrange a phone line and speakerphone (Polycom).
1. **SELECT THE RANDOMNESS SOURCES:** You will need to select randomness sources that will be fed into the RFC 3797-specified process for selecting volunteers.  Figure out what sources you want to use with sufficient time that you can craft the appropriate announcement.  A sample announcement from the 2017-2018 NomCom is found at: [https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg16784.html](https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg16784.html).  This should give you an idea of some sources that have been used.  Most recent NomComs have used variations on these or similar sources.  Make sure you adjust dates and email addresses in your version of the announcement.  This step can be done at any point prior to the date given in the timeline for posting the randomness sources.  Be careful to choose randomness sources that are published with great regularity otherwise you may need to have alternate sources or delays in your timeline in order to capture their outputs according to when you need them.  The US Treasury numbers for a particular date, for example, are published (as of 2017) a day later at 4:15 p.m. ET.  Give some care to how the random data is posted and make sure you include any constraints in your announcement (next step) **.**  Constraints might be such things as ignoring commas and periods (useful for US Treasury figures, for example) or how many numbers/digits and which ones of a particular source are to be used.
1. **POST THE RANDOMNESS SOURCES ANNOUNCEMENT:** Using the tool at [https://datatracker.ietf.org/secr/announcement/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/secr/announcement/), post your announcement on the date you specified in your timeline.  This is generally right after the deadline to volunteer for your NomCom.  Make sure to cc: [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org).  You will want to specify the selection method to be used (most likely RFC 3797).
1. **POST THE VOLUNTEERS LIST:** A sample posting can be found at: [https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg16783.html](https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg16783.html).  This will be used for the initial challenge in which the community can point out flaws in your list (duplicate entries or changes in affiliation, for example) or challenge a person&#39;s right to be on the list (presumably on the basis that the person has not met the participation requirements of RFC 7437, Section 4.17).  It might be good to change your posting to include having people check the affiliations of not just themselves but also others that they know.  The list of volunteers should be numbered.  This comes into play when you run the random selection process as the process will, if you are using RFC 3797, output numbers, not names.  The numbers output are then used to determine which names to announce after the selection process is run.  If you use various text processing tools to piece together and number the volunteers list, be aware that some names have non-ASCII characters in them and don&#39;t necessarily play well these tools.  (Ondřej Surý is one such name, where the &#39;ř&#39; doesn&#39;t survive all tools, while the &#39;ý&#39; did better.)  RFC 7437 indicates that the volunteer list and the random seeds are posted as a single announcement, but recent practice has been two postings close in time to one another.
1. **PROCESS VOLUNTEER LIST INPUT:** You will likely receive input on the volunteer list announcement.  Some of these will be &quot;change my affiliation&quot; type requests.  Update your database/spreadsheet/text file to note the changes.  These matter should you end up with more than two selected volunteers from the same organization.  RFC 7437, Section 4.17 prohibits more than two NomCom voting members having the same affiliation.  Some volunteers may withdraw their requests when they see the announcement, even though were given an opportunity to do so previously.   Since you have sent out a numbered list of the volunteers, it&#39;s probably better not to delete them from your list, but rather replace them with a notation indicating that if that person is selected, another selection should be made.  See RFC 3797 regarding generating additional volunteer selections.
1. **PULL THE RANDOM SOURCE VALUES** : On the selected day for announcing the random selection results (or any day past the deadline for raising issues with the volunteers list and up to the day for announcing the selected volunteers), pull the random source values.
1. **RUN THE RANDOM VALUES TO GENERATE A LIST OF NOMCOM VOTING MEMBERS:** While you don&#39;t have use RFC 3797 as the method of generating the list, it&#39;s recommended because it works and it is well known by the community.  You can expect that your adviser will run the selection method also in order to verify your run&#39;s output and the community almost invariably will have a few members who will do so as well.  An implementation of the RFC 3797 method written by Suresh Krishnan can be found here: [https://tools.ietf.org/tools/nomcomsel/](https://tools.ietf.org/tools/nomcomsel/).  This implementation takes as input the size of the volunteer list, the number of selections to be made, and the random source values.  Because you can&#39;t be certain that all of the volunteers will accept their selections to the NomCom (for example, because of changes in circumstances or forgetting that they are on the volunteers list from a previous IETF registration), you may wish to pull additional numbers from the sequence by telling the tool that you want more selections than are strictly necessary.  This way, you&#39;ll have the extra numbers ready without need to run the extraction again.  The output of the tool is a set of numbers that correspond to the numbers on the list of volunteers.  The tool takes the random source values as a set of lines of input.  If a source produces multiple values (such as a list of lottery picks), the numbers are separated by spaces.  Each source is entered on a separate line and then the value &quot;end&quot; (without the quotes) is entered to terminate the input.  The tool will prepare the inputs and format them according to the method given in RFC 3797.  An example:
	* The random seeds source values from the 2017-2018 NomCom were:
		* EuroMillions results for July 4, 2017: 10 22 25 37 49 5 8
		* US Treasury Debt Held by the Public for July 6, 2017: 93683564 (from $14,362,806,936,835.64)
		* US Treasury Intragovernmental Holdings for July 6, 2017: 23963833 (from $5,481,990,239,638.33)
		* Powerball Lottery Results for July 5, 2017: 4 9 16 54 68 21
	* The inputs to the nomcomsel tool were:
		* 10 22 25 37 49 5 8
		* 93683564
		* 23963833
		* 4 9 16 54 68 21
		* end
	* The resulting output was:
		* Key is: 5.8.10.22.25.37.49./93683564./23963833./4.9.16.21.54.68./
		* (followed by the list of selections from the pool)
1. **CLEAN UP THE SELECTIONS:** RFC 7437 does not permit more than two volunteers from the same organization.  If you get more than two selections from the same organization, then only the first two are permitted to serve (but see the section on Confirming Participation, below) and any beyond the first two are disqualified and additional selections will be required to replace them.  Consideration should be given as to whether a volunteer&#39;s self-submitted organization name matches another variant of the organization&#39;s name – don&#39;t rely on an exact string match.  For example, Foo Co., Foo Inc., Foo Inc, Foo Research Labs, and Foo are all probably the same organization.
1. **ANNOUNCE THE SELECTIONS:** Using the IETF Announce posting tool (again cc&#39;ing [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org)), announce the initial set of 10 nominees.  A sample announcement can be found here: XXX.  A sample announcement showing what you might want to do if a NomCom volunteer demurs can be found here: XXX.  To fill in the announcement, you&#39;ll need to translate the numbers output from the random selection tool into names and matching affiliations.  Posting the announcement starts a one-week challenge period during which the IETF community can challenge any volunteer&#39;s selection to the NomCom (see RFC 7437, Section 4.17).
1. **DEALING WITH CHALLENGES:** If a valid challenge to a selection is made, remove the challenged selection from the list, add a new selection using the extra numbers you generated (or rerun the generation process to get at least one new number), and post an updated announcement.
1. **CONFIRM PARTICIPATION:** For each selected volunteer, contact them by some means and verify a willingness to participate.  Verify that each volunteer understands the time, schedule, and participation requirements for sitting on the NomCom.  If there is an unwillingness or inability to perform the duties required, ask the volunteer to withdraw from the pool so that you can select another.  If a selected volunteer does not respond to a request for confirmation of willingness, that volunteer is disqualified and another selection must be made.  (See RFC 7437, Section 4.17.)  The chair may wish to suggest to any volunteer who is unable to attend meetings in person that it might be best if they forego their participation in the NomCom, as it unfairly burdens the rest of the NomCom during the interview process.  Also ask each willing participant to designate a preferred email address for group communications.
1. **ANNOUNCE THE FINAL COMPOSITION OF THE NOMCOM:** After the one week challenge period expires and all replacements that may be needed for disqualified/unwilling/successfully challenged selectees have been made, post a second announcement to the IETF Announce mailing list (cc&#39;ed to [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org)), with the details of the final composition of the NomCom.
1. **HAVE THE IETF SECRETARIAT POPULATE THE NOMCOM EMAIL ALIASES BASED ON THE FINAL NOMCOM SELECTIONS:** Ask the IETF Secretariat (Glen or the current person designated to deal with email aliases) to populate the [nomcom-XXX@ietf.org](mailto:nomcom-XXX@ietf.org) mailing list with the email addresses of the NomCom members (voting and liaison/adviser).  Have the Secretariat make corresponding additions to the [nomcomXX-coord@ietf.org](mailto:nomcomXX-coord@ietf.org) mailing list.
1. **COORDINATE THE FIRST MEETING OF THE NEW NOMCOM:** A welcome dinner on the Sunday of the meeting week after the Welcome Reception has been used in years past.  While this dinner has normally been unhosted, it might be worth checking the IETF Secretariat to see if there&#39;s budget available to host the dinner.  In any case, it falls to the NomCom Chair to determine the dietary and location preferences of the NomCom and make the arrangements.  As this is a meet-and-greet type of affair, inviting spouses to join the NomCom members is fine.  Of course, nothing of confidence to the NomCom should be discussed during the dinner.
1. **COORDINATE THE DAILY MEETINGS OF THE NOMCOM:** Along with setting up the welcome dinner, daily meetings should be arranged with the whole NomCom.  Breakfast meetings tend to work better than other times of the day, as these are times are less overscheduled (either by the participant or the Secretariat).  It&#39;s also unrealistic to expect that everyone will be able to make it to every breakfast, so the Chair may have to spend time repeating some of previous discussions for those who missed a meeting.  If all matters before the NomCom are arranged before the end of the week, it&#39;s fine to contact the Secretariat and cancel the breakfast arrangements.
1. **GET A KEY TO NOMCOM ROOM FROM THE SECRETARIAT:** While the Secretariat may not make a key to the NomCom meeting room available to the NomCom Chair without being prompted, they will certainly do so if asked and they should be.  This allows the Chair access to the room even if hotel staff have locked the room overnight and not unlocked it in time for its use.
1. **RUN THE DAILY MEETINGS:** On the first day of the meeting, have each member of the NomCom make an introduction, however you see fit.  It&#39;s quite possible not all of them made it to the welcome dinner, so full introductions are probably a good thing.  Then start the discussion of the logistics for the week, before launching into the specifics of the NomCom process itself.  You may wish to see if anyone has second thoughts about participating, because withdrawing from the NomCom at this point is much less detrimental than after the Third IETF meeting, for example.  You should assume that most members will not have a lot of background in how the NomCom operates or even necessarily exactly what it will be doing.  Potential topics to be discussed (not a complete list and in no particular order):
	* What the NomCom does
	* Where the process is documented (RFC 7437) bis document
	* The NomCom home page and its subsections
	* Use of the datatracker and the required private key
	* Confidentiality requirements
	* Schedule
	* Participation requirements
	* Expected hours required to perform the tasks of the NomCom throughout the period of participation
	* Voting mechanism (Condorcet, perhaps) and quorum for making decisions (RFC 7437, section 5.6)
	* Social expectations and behavior amongst members
	* Nominee questionnaires
	* The critical importance of being at the Third IETF meeting and how disruptive the interviews are to normal participation in meeting session.
1. **SHARE THE NOMCOM PRIVATE KEY:** During the face-to-face sessions at the Second IETF meeting, share the private key that you previously generated with all of the members.  This can be done via a USB token (probably not the most cybersecurity hygienic thing to do, and in any case you may need both USB-A and USB-C type keys or a converter dongle to work with all laptops) or via encrypted PGP messages (if the members are set up for PGP, this is probably the cleanest route).  Under no circumstances should the private key be transmitted in such a way that a cleartext copy can be obtained by someone outside of the NomCom.  The whole of the confidentiality of the NomCom process rests on the nondisclosure of that private key.  Sharing PGP keys at this point is also helpful because they can be easily verified.
1. **DETERMINE AN INTERVIEW SCHEDULE FOR OUTGOING I\* MEMBERS:** The next step the NomCom will engage in after the conclusion of the Second IETF is interviewing IAB, IESG, and IAOC members who have indicated that they will not be running for their current posts during this cycle.  To this end, the Chair should check with the NomCom members to see what days of the week and times work best for them.  Agree upon a single time, if possible, since it&#39;s generally more difficult to coordinate a rotating schedule amongst a group of this size, but work without whatever schedule is most feasible.  When on the calendar these interviews start will be determined by how many interviews are to be conducted, the need to complete them prior to the Third IETF meeting, and how well you are able to schedule the interviews with the I\* members.  If the chair of a body is not up for election in this NomCom cycle, it may also be helpful to interview those people as well to get the &quot;big picture.&quot;  Interviews are conducted via WebEx, which can be accessed over the Internet or by phone.
1. **CONTACT INTERVIEWEES:**  Set up a Doodle poll based on the times and dates determined in the previous step.  It might be good to have extra time slots available in the poll so that there&#39;s a higher likelihood of being to get ever I\* member to participate in an interview.
1. **CONDUCT THE INTERVIEWS:** The point of interviewing outgoing members is to get a feel for several things, some of which depend on the body that person serves on, and some of which depends on the current composition of the body and how it has been operating.  Two members of the NomCom are needed to conduct the interview – one to ask the questions and another to write down what was discussed.  These two members need not be the same for each interview.  Meeting notes should both be sent out to internal NomCom mailing list and stored in a private file store (_e.g._, GitHub) for future access.  It&#39;s probably good to reserve some time during each call (and the interviewee has dropped out of the WebEx) to discuss any thoughts on the interview and thing else that the NomCom needs to address.  Things that may be worth discussing during the interview include:
	* The zeitgeist of the body as it currently stands
	* Desirable skills for the selected candidate
	* Issues with others on the body and how to a select a candidate who can work with or around those issues
1. **PREPARE THE NOMINEE QUESTIONNAIRES:** In consultation with the NomCom members, prepare the questionnaires that each nominee must fill out in order to be further considered for selection.  These questionnaires allow the NomCom to gather information about each nominee and review it prior to conducting face-to-face interviews.  Historically, there has been a different questionnaire for each of the IAB, IESG, and IAOC.  Despite having a somewhat unique role, the IETF Chair nominees are asked to fill out the IESG questionnaire since the IETF Chair serves on the IESG as the Area Director of the General Area.  The preparation of the questionnaire can be done by email discussion or perhaps during the private portion of a WebEx call.  Use of GitHub allows members to submit pull requests for things they would like to see changed in a questionnaire, if GitHub is used for document management.
1. **SEND OUT THE CALL FOR NOMINEES:** At some point after the Second IETF meeting and with sufficient time before the Third IETF meeting, send out a call for nominees for the open position.  The call is sent to the IETF Announce mailing list (copied to the [ietf@ietf.org](mailto:ietf@ietf.org) mailing list).  An example call for nominees can be found [here](https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg16946.html) (which, it should be noted is not compliant with item a., below, so don&#39;t use the example without more work than changing the dates and positions!).  You should probably also set scheduled reminders to yourself to send out at least one more call for nominees at the mid-point of the period of the initial call.  This is helpful for people who put off submitting a nomination, have an involved process to go through to get corporate approval to run, or when a particular position is not receiving many nominations and more are needed to ensure a viable pool.  The definition of sufficient time is such that interested nominees can jump through the required hoops and fill out the questionnaires, while leaving enough time for the NomCom to review the questionnaires prior to the Third IETF meeting.  RFC 7437 (Section 5.10) requires that the call for nominees include:
	* a request for comments regarding the past performance of incumbents
	* a valid, working email address, a telephone number, or both for the nominee
	* a note that a nomination must include the set of skills or expertise the nominator believes the nominee has that would be desirable
	* not mentioned, but obviously required is the position for which the nomination is being made.
**KNOWN ISSUES:**
1. **Many organizations use SPF policies to control their outgoing email.  For email sent to the nomcom-chair-XXXX alias, you may not receive all emails from volunteers if your receiving MTA honors these SPF records (particularly when they have &quot;-all&quot; in them) because the IETF MTA will resend messages to you with the sender being the original sender, for which the IETF MTA is not generally an accepted originator.  ISOC and ICANN fall into the category of organizations for which this is a problem.